Blue Planet live is following on from
planet - we're gonna try and recreate
everything that was special about that
program live we are celebrating the
oceans again from three different places
on the planet and also updating our our
audiences what the state of the oceans
are celebrating the scientists who are
doing extraordinary research to give
some of our ocean ecosystem a lifeline
the immediacy the anticipation the
unpredictability of live programs I
think is it replicates what happens when
we go out looking for wildlife we
maximize our chances through going to
the right place at the right time and by
doing very good and meticulous research
but the unpredictability is I think is
exciting what I'm going to be doing in
this series is the live shark diving
sharks are probably my greatest
fascination and their conservation my
greatest passion the opportunity to
bring that message to a broader audience
live is something that I will probably
never get a chance to do again in my
career unpredictable uncertain
potentially amazing
my role in Blue Planet live is to look
at whales in the Sea of Cortez at this
time of year it's a mecca for whale
watchers and of course whale scientists
and it's the scientist who I'm going to
meet we're going to be looking in detail
principally the health of these animals
because we know that they've got
problems in their population and we want
to understand exactly how to address
those problems the most exciting fact
that I've learned from Blue Planet is
that I don't yet know enough and none of
us do it's basically a fairly new
science that's beginning to unravel the
sounds of a coral reef and what each
individual fish is vocalizing for
because each fish will have different
calls for different purposes scientists
are using this new emerging information
to recolonize dying reefs they know the
stages of recolonization so for example
they're going to play the sound of
snapping shrimp in order to lure small
fish who need it'll burrows to develop
in if a snapping shrimp is there they've
built these little holes the fish can
use and then they study layer upon layer
of recolonization who needs what and
they play those sounds that's pretty
cool we've had the entire planet to
choose from where we go to and we've
cherry picked the three I think finest
marine ecosystems in terms of what they
have to offer in just sheer beauty and
diversity and wonder but they're all
also three environments that are under
incredible challenges for me the Bahamas
is probably the one that has the the
best potential outcome shark fishing is
is not legal there there's at least two
million protected acres of water there
and because of that you see an
incredible resurgence in the life it's a
place where conservation has worked I
think being able to have a real positive
outcome story to be able to say to
people this is the evidence that
can work it can be incredibly powerful
[Music]
you